I am a PhD candidate in interdiciplary area of statistical/machine learning and econometric study. I am experienced in evaluating statistical learning models and doing econometric studies with these techniques. Applying Bayesian & frequentist models with dynamic programming to aid decision making for complex/data based financial activities has been my research interest since undergraduate school.

As a statistical researcher, my principal interests of machine learning lie in the field of Bayesian inference and variable selection in supervised learning studies, especially in building algorithms for Bayesian-based logistic models with re-parameterized prior and corresponding MCMC simulation. To conquer the current computational limitation in the Metropolis-Hastings process, increasing performance with variational inference and distributed computation is my main research goal.  

As an economic researcher, I am interested in applying novel statistical approaches to test causality and achieve optimization under the classical quantitative theoretical framework. Based on this interest, I am currently undertaking my PhD on the study of evaluation algorithms to help make risk-controlled and efficient investment decisions, in medium to big size data. Following this, I hope to establish financial indicators/systems to detect and most importantly predict investment/risk alert signal in daily information processing activities, which potentially can be beneficial to government sectors, the central bank, corporate governors, researchers and other stakeholders.

